Hi, good morning.
My name is Sari,
and my topic for today is a
set of APIs called URL Access.
Now,
URL Access has actually been a topic at
WWDC for the past couple few years now,
but this year we got
our very own session,
which is pretty exciting.
We're going to have time to go through
pretty much everything you've ever wanted
to know about URL Access and then some.
Let's get started.
Here's what I plan on covering today.
We're going to go through
what URL Access does and why
you might want to use it.
We'll spend some time,
quite a bit of time,
on going over the APIs in depth.
We'll talk about what URL Access is
like on 9 versus 10 versus your DP4
CDs that you got at the conference.
We'll talk a little bit about what we
plan to do with URL Access in the future.
We'll have a very quick demo,
which you guys are going to need
to pay attention to because we have
very little UI in this product.
So we'll have a quick demo,
and then we should have some
time left over to do Q&A.
My goals for this session,
what I hope you'll learn today,
is what you can do with URL Access,
how to use it to get your
Carbon applications going.
And finally,
since this API is a mature API now,
it's been around for a few years,
some developers have run into some
limitations with it and some issues,
and I want to make sure that any
first-time users don't hit those as well.
So what is URL Access?
If it's not totally
obvious from the name,
it's an API to allow you to
access data on the Internet.
And the way you do this
is you give it a URL.
We have support for the following
schemes or URL prefixes:
HTTP, HTTPS, FTP and file.
It supports both downloading
of data and uploading of data.
And it's a Carbon API,
so it's available on 9 and 10.
So this diagram gives an overview
of the Apple security APIs,
of which URL Access is one,
partly because it supports
SSL for HTTPS and also for
organizational reasons.
So as you can see,
URL Access is part of the
classic environment and part
of the Carbon environment.
And it's callable from legacy apps,
Carbon apps, and it's also actually
callable for Mac OS X apps,
although the diagram
does not make that clear.
The URL Access architecture,
it's part of Carbon.
As I said before, it implements HTTP,
HTTPS, FTP, and file.
And some of the toolboxes
it uses are OpenTransport,
Internet Config.
The Keychain and SSL.
We use OpenTransport, of course,
to do our networking.
We use Internet Config to find
out about proxies and firewalls
that the user has configured.
We use the Keychain to automatically
access sites that require authentication.
And we use SSL to do HTTPS.
So now you know what it does overall.
What does it do specifically?
This is a set of features that
are available to you independent
of what scheme your URL is.
We have an authentication dialog,
which will come up automatically
if the site you're going
to requires authentication,
and that is an optional feature.
We have a progress dialog if you'd
like for the user to be able to view
the progress of the download or upload
and stop the download or upload.
And that, once again, is optional.
We support encoding
and decoding of files.
We encode binhex before
you upload a file,
if you like,
and we also attempt to decode the file.
We support binhex again,
and we support using the stuff engine
if the stuff engine is installed.
It is a scriptable API,
and we do have proxy
and firewall support.
Specifically, we support HTTP proxies,
and we support the SOX firewall.
And as I mentioned before,
we support the keychain for
automatic authentication.
HTTP feature set.
We support download, no upload yet.
We support posting,
but that does require a
little additional work,
and I'll go through a
code sample of that.
We support auto-redirection,
so if the URL you're going to
is relocated to another site,
we will follow that redirection until
it terminates in some actual data
and just hand you back the data.
That is an optional feature.
You do have full access to the
server response if you need it.
And we do support proxy authentication,
so some HTTP proxies
require you to authenticate,
and we will bring up a
dialogue for that as well.
With FTP,
you can not only download files,
but you can upload files.
And you can not only
download and upload files,
but you can download
and upload directories,
entire directories as well.
Or if you prefer,
your URL points to a directory.
You can also get a directory listing,
but you're going to have to parse
it yourself because we don't
provide any parsing support.
HTTPS,
right now there's a little bit of a
disparity between Mac OS X and Mac OS 9.
On 10, we already support SSL 3
with 128-bit encryption.
The current status of OS 9 is that we
support SSL 2.0 and 40-bit encryption.
Now I want to apologize in advance
for this next few slides because the
whole point of URL access is that
you don't need to know the technical
details behind the protocols.
However, that being said,
let's talk about some functional
limitations in URL access.
First of all we don't parse HTML.
Well, of course not,
but what does that mean to you?
What that means is when a
webmaster designs a website,
they often have two options for
implementing a given feature.
They can do it in the HTTP or
they can do it in the HTML.
If they opt for the former,
then we likely is not supported.
If they opt to implement it in the HTML,
there's nothing we can do.
The best example of this is login.
When you use your web browser
and you get a dialogue saying,
you know, please log into this site,
that's an HTTP authentication.
Now when you use your web browser
and you get a form asking you to
-- for a username and password,
that's HTML.
That's HTML authentication
and we don't support that.
Some other examples are
file not found could,
you know,
there could be a web page saying file
not found and they don't tell us in
the HTTP that the file isn't there.
And redirection can also
be implemented in the HTML,
but it's usually implemented in HTTP.
Now because of this fact
that we don't parse HTML,
there's some FTP limitations.
If you go through a proxy,
FTP is basically transformed into HTML.
And because we don't parse the HTML,
we can't upload files and we can't
download or upload direct views.
And the last one has been
hit by a number of people.
URL Access is pretty popular as an
option for getting HTTPS support
because it's some fairly...
[Transcript missing]
So the first thing that happens when you
make an SSL connection is the client asks
the server for the server certificate.
And the server obliges.
And then the client has to
do due diligence to make sure
that this certificate is from
a server that they trust.
How do they do this?
They need to find out who
issued the certificate,
who signed the certificate.
And that certificate in red,
which we also call the root certificate.
URL Access goes through its list
of known root certificates to
see if that root is in its list.
If it isn't, you don't get to connect.
If it is, you do.
And this set of root
certs is a static set.
The only way to update it is to
get a new version of URL Access,
which is unfortunate,
but we hope to rectify that with
the secure transport library,
which some of you may have heard
about in the security overview.
So now let's talk about what
you can do with URL Access.
I thought I'd give a few sample uses,
and hopefully that will get you
thinking about what you can do with it,
too.
Internally at Apple,
we have several high-profile
clients of URL Access.
Sherlock uses it to do
its Internet searching.
Software Updater uses it to
upgrade files over the Internet.
Help Viewer uses it to
display Internet content.
When the content isn't local,
it uses URL Access to go get the content.
Network Browser uses
it to access FTP sites,
which is a pretty cool feature
if you haven't played with it.
You go to Network Browser,
enter the Connect To dialog,
your FTP site,
and you can browse through the FTP sites.
Some third-party uses, iCab.
Some of you may be familiar with
this web browser on the Macintosh.
It uses URL Access only for HTTPS sites.
Adobe uses it in Acrobat to implement
a feature called Web Capture.
This is a feature that allows
them to take HTML files and
transform them into PDF.
And finally,
numerous companies are using the
scripting component internally
to do various and sundry things.
So now you know what
you're going to do with it,
I hope,
and let's talk about how to do it.
Let's go through the API.
We'll talk about the synchronous API,
which is the easiest to use.
We'll go through flags which
control aspects of the transfer.
We'll talk about properties,
and then we'll move into
the asynchronous API.
It's a little more flexible,
but consequently a little
more difficult to use.
And we'll talk about states.
The very easiest way to download
a URL on any platform-- OK,
I don't know for that for sure,
but it's kind of fun to
say-- is URL Simple Download.
It's a single call.
to download a URL.
All you do is you provide the source URL.
You provide it the destination FS spec
if you want to download to a file,
or you provide the destination handle
if you'd like to download to memory.
And you also pass in any flags, you know,
if you want it to do
something in particular.
Now,
I'm going to make a request that you all,
if you use this API,
please use it in thread.
It's a synchronous API.
It's going to take some time to complete,
so please put it in a separate thread.
So let's see how
URL Simple Download works.
Here we have a routine, getURL,
which I'm going to implement
in several different ways
throughout this presentation.
It takes a source URL,
it takes a destination FS spec,
And in this case, we're going to use
URL Simple Download to implement it.
As you can see, it's pretty simple.
We declare some flags.
We declare status.
And we call URL Simple Download.
We pass in the URL.
We pass in the destination FS spec.
We say we don't want
to download to memory,
which is the following nil, and we say,
here's some flags saying what
I want you to do with my download.
When the URL simple download completes,
the download is complete, and we're done.
So I kind of breezed over the two
last parameters to UFSimple Download,
and those parameters involve
the system event procedure.
This is a way,
a parameter to all the synchronous calls.
And if you're going to display a dialog,
or you think a dialog
is going to come up,
you really need to
implement one of these.
It allows the dialogs to be
displayed as movable modal.
If you don't implement one,
the dialogs will be just
your regular modal dialogs.
And what the system event procedure
does is basically receive update events
so your app has time to update itself
while we're moving our dialog around.
The second synchronous API I want to
talk about is slightly more complex.
There's two more steps,
but it's significantly more powerful,
and it's called URL Download.
The two extra steps are you have to
create and dispose of a URL reference.
And once again,
it should be used in a thread
because it's going to take some time.
Now,
why would you use URL Download instead
of URL Simple Download?
Well,
because you have this URL reference,
you can make any of the other API calls
to do various and sundry things.
You can call get and set property
before and after the download.
Or if you're threaded
from another thread,
you could monitor the state of
the download or even abort it.
So here is our get URL routine again,
implemented in terms of
the URL download call.
As you can see,
there's just two extra steps.
Once again, we declare our flags,
we declare our status,
we declare URL reference now,
called URL ref, and we create it by
calling URL new reference.
Then we call URL Download.
This time we pass in the URL Ref instead
of the source URL directly.
We pass in the destination FS spec.
Don't download to memory.
Pass in our flags.
And when that call returns,
the download is done and we are
free to dispose our URL reference.
So now we've talked about
synchronous downloading.
Let's talk just briefly
about synchronous uploading.
There's two ways, once again,
URL Simple Upload and URL Upload
to upload synchronously,
and they're very similar to
their downloading counterparts,
with the following exceptions.
You provide a destination
URL instead of a source URL,
of course.
You provide a source FS spec
instead of a destination FS spec.
In addition,
you cannot upload from memory.
You can only upload from a file.
And, of course,
different flags apply to uploading
as opposed to downloading.
Finally, in its current state,
uploading is FTP only.
So we've talked about flags a lot.
Let's get into some detail on those.
They do control optional
aspects of the transfer,
and they are used in both
synchronous and asynchronous calls.
Here are some sample flags.
Replace existing flag.
basically says if the destination file,
be it an upload or a download, exists,
then go ahead and replace it.
Now if you don't set this flag,
what we do is we create a unique name.
We never return destination exists error.
So that's something to keep in mind.
The next flag, display progress flag,
is how you indicate that
you want a progress dialog.
Display authentication flag
is how you indicate you want
an authentication dialog.
Expand file flag says,
after the file is downloaded,
please do everything you
can to decode it for me.
Benhex file flag says
before the file is uploaded,
if the file has a resource
fork and it's not of type text,
please Benhex it for me.
And finally, the no auto-redirect flag.
If the HTTP site does redirect you and
you don't want that redirect followed,
then you can set this
flag and it won't be.
Now let's talk about properties.
Properties fall into one of
four different categories.
They are either aspects
of the URL itself,
for example,
the host name or the entire URL.
Or they are aspects of the
resource that the URL points to.
For example, the size of the file,
the name of the file,
or the MIME type of the data.
The third category is aspects
of the transfer itself.
A good example here is
the URL status string,
which changes as the download progresses.
It goes from initiating to connecting
to downloading to aborting,
et cetera.
URL Total Items is a property that's
available if you're downloading
or uploading an entire directory.
It tells you how many
items there are total.
Those first two are both useful if you're
displaying your own progress dialog.
HTTP redirected URL.
If there is a redirect,
you can find out about
it in this property.
The last category of
properties is they're another
way to control the transfer.
If something is more complicated
than just a yes or no question
and we couldn't make it a flag,
we made it a property instead.
For example, the HTTP request method
is something you can set.
Or the HTTP user agent.
This is really useful.
A lot of websites are quirky in that
they want you to be Mozilla compliant,
so you can set your user agent
to have a string Mozilla in it.
So properties can be retrieved
with URL Get Property.
They're set with URL Set Property.
And they may change during the transfer.
Two examples of this are the status ring,
which changes frequently.
Another example is some properties may
move from an unknown to a known state.
In HTTP, if the HTTP server tells
us the size of the file,
the resource size property goes
from unknown to a known state,
and that is a property change.
Here's a list of all the
properties you can set.
This is conclusive.
No other properties are settable.
That first line should read
URL HTTP request header,
which is how you set the entire
header of the HTTP request.
Or you can just set
the method or the body.
You can set the user
agent and the last two,
username and password.
This is how you would implement
your own authentication dialog.
Display the dialog, enter,
have the user enter the
username and password,
call set property on both of those items,
and then do the download.
So now I want to show
you how to do a post.
Doing a post is a pretty
popular thing in URL Access.
A lot of people use it for posting.
In this case, we're going to use
URL download once again,
but we're going to set
some properties first.
We're going to create
a new URL reference.
Then we're going to set the
HTTP request method property to be post,
and the HTTP request body
property to be our post data.
And then we simply call URL Download.
That does the post,
and the answer to the post will be
put into whatever your destination is.
So that's it for the synchronous APIs,
flags, and properties.
Let's move on to the asynchronous APIs.
Once again, to use the asynchronous APIs,
you need a URL reference.
But instead of calling
URL Download or URL Upload,
you're going to call URL Open.
URL Open is an asynchronous call.
What it does is return immediately
and starts the download or
upload in the background.
You can use it to download to a file,
or you can choose to get the
data yourself by calling get
buffer and release buffer.
Now, there's two ways to monitor
an asynchronous download.
You can either use a
notification routine,
which is the preferred method,
or if you insist,
you can poll with URL Get Current State.
Now, why would anyone want to
use the asynchronous APIs?
If you can't think of a reason,
here's a couple.
If you're a filter,
there's a very good reason.
For example,
if you're a web crawler and all you do
is parse the HTML that you receive for
more URLs and then go and download those,
you can consume the data before
the data is completely downloaded.
This is a very good reason
to use the asynchronous APIs.
Another good reason is if you
want to display your own progress,
the async APIs are the only way to
get enough information to do that.
And finally, if you have some moral
opposition to threading,
then you should probably
use the async APIs.
So this one's a little longer,
as you can see.
And please don't go
back and copy this code,
because it's not how
we want you to do it.
It does pull, but I want it to be
consistent with my example.
And so we're going to implement
getURL in terms of the URL open call.
So the first,
the beginning is pretty much the same.
We set some variables up.
We create a new reference.
The first highlighted line, notify UPP,
creates a new URL notify UPP.
That is a carbon-only step.
If you're implementing online only,
then you don't need to do this,
but hopefully you all are going
to carbonize your applications,
so you need to create a notify UPP.
You pass in the notification
routine that you want to use,
and then you simply call URL open.
- Yeah.
Pass in the URL reference.
You say, "Nil,
I don't want to download to a
file." You pass in any flags you
want to control the download.
You notify UPP.
And then you pass in a mask
for what events you want
your notification to receive.
and any user contacts.
In this case,
I'm passing in a pointer to a Boolean.
Done.
That's the part I don't
want you to emulate.
And then I'm going to sit and spin.
Well, I'm not done.
URL Idle.
And URL Idle is a call that allows
URL Access time to do its work.
It's very important,
especially for polling.
And finally, once I'm done,
I can dispose my UPP,
I dispose my reference, and that's it.
So here's our notification routine.
My notifier.
The parameters passed in
are your user context,
of course,
the event for which you were called,
and the rest of the information is
in the URL callback info struct.
This is mainly so if we want to pass
you in more information in the future,
we can do so by modifying the struct.
There is a version
number in the structure.
So the first thing we're going
to do in our notification routine
is set up our user context,
our done variable.
And then we're going to switch
on the event that we received.
If we get a data available event,
we need to go process some data.
If we get a completed
or error occurred event,
that means we're done.
So we set our done variable to true.
Process data.
We're passing the URL ref so
we can actually get the data.
And then we're going to sit in a loop,
getting data and releasing data.
Now, URL get buffer says I'm borrowing
a buffer from URL Access.
You notice that there is no
memory allocation in this routine.
That's not a bug.
It's not going to crash.
We're basically getting
the buffer from URL Access.
We consume it in any way we so desire,
and then we give it back.
Once again,
we're going to call URL idle because
we could be in this loop for a while.
And then we get the current
state of the download to see if
there's still data available.
When you get the data available event,
you get it one time per
set of data available.
So you have to consume all the data
before you're going to get another event.
Let's talk a little
bit more about events.
They are, of course,
reported to the notification routine.
You can register for a subset of events.
You can say,
I only want events that relate
to data being downloaded.
That's the all buffer events mask.
Or you can just, for example,
register for just the completed
and error occurred event,
if all you care about is whether
or not the download is done.
Let's talk about a few of
the events that we have.
The resource found event means
URL Access has gone out and looked
for the resource and it actually
has successfully found the resource.
The resource is there.
Everything is great.
The property changed event happens
anytime any property changes,
either from an unknown state to a known
state or from one value to another value.
The error occurred event
reports non-recoverable errors.
It does not report any interim
errors that we've worked around.
If you get an error occurred event,
the download is done.
The data available event,
as I talked about earlier,
you're going to get one per
set of data that's available.
Periodic event just gives you time
to do whatever you want to do.
I didn't mention earlier that
the notification routine is
called at a memory-safe time.
You can do whatever you want,
allocate memory,
take a whole lot of time,
draw to the screen, do anything you want,
as long as you call
URL Idle periodically.
Abort initiated event says,
"Somebody hit the abort button," or
"Somebody called URL abort." And we
have this event mainly because
aborts are non-instantaneous,
so you may need to know that an
abort is beginning to happen,
and that will be followed
quickly by the completed event.
States.
Let's talk about states anyway,
because states are useful even
if you don't want to poll.
URL Get Current State reports
the state of the transfer.
And some states have event counterparts.
For example,
there's a data available event
in a data available state.
There's an error occurred event
in an error occurred state.
But some of them don't.
The one thing that you cannot find
out with state that you have to
have events for is property changes.
And they are useful with
both the async and sync APIs.
All you need is a URL reference,
and you can find out the
state of your download.
Here's a list of sample states.
It should be all pretty obvious.
Connecting, we're downloading,
there's data available,
an error occurred, and we've finished.
So let's go through some issues that
other developers have hit in the past
when they're programming to URL Access.
URL Access is a highly-threaded API.
So you absolutely have to call URL Idle,
and I hope I drilled
that home in my examples.
Set property expects C and
Pascal strings in some cases.
Now this is a bug,
but it is a released bug,
so we have to continue to support it.
I do want to try and rectify
this issue on Mac OS X,
possibly with the addition of a new API.
So for example,
when you set the user agent,
it's got to be a C string.
When you set the user name,
it's got to be a P string.
And this is documented in the
latest rev of the documentation.
Another issue people have had is
that you can't call URL Dispose
Reference from notification routine.
You will crash, I promise.
A few more.
The HTTP request body
cannot contain null bytes.
That's a direct result of the fact
that we expect it to be a C string.
This is fixed in post-904 releases,
of which there are none, I realize,
but there will be some day, I expect.
URL reference is not reusable.
You can't set properties on it,
call URL download,
and then set some more properties,
call URL download again.
You have to create and dispose it,
one download per.
Finally, the authentication dialog
and the progress dialog,
for that matter,
are not supported in the async APIs.
So if you are using the async APIs,
you have to do your own authentication
dialog and your own progress dialog.
So that's it for the API.
Let's just quickly go over
what we've talked about.
We talked about the synchronous API,
URL simple download, URL simple upload,
URL download, URL upload, four calls,
very easy to use.
We talked about the asynchronous API,
URL open, URL get buffer,
URL release buffer.
We talked about flags that control
aspects of the transfer and properties
which do all sorts of things.
We talked about events which are
reported to your notification routine
and states which are available to you
any time you have a URL reference.
So Mac OS 9 and Mac OS X URL Access are
different slightly,
and here's how they differ.
For those of you who have been to
this talk in the past couple of years,
we talked about the ability
to extend the capabilities
of URL Access using plug-ins.
Now, this is not supported on Mac OS X.
We may add it back at some point,
but it will not be in the first release.
Scripting may not make the
first release of Mac OS X.
Actually,
now that Steve has announced that summer
is our beta and January is our GM,
I think we'll be able
to get scripting done.
Mac OS X, as I mentioned before,
has 128-bit SSL 3.
And the current Mac OS X has SSL 2,
40-bit.
Properties will work correctly,
possibly with the addition of a new API.
And this last one is just kind of an FYI.
Mac OS X is a carbonized version
of the Mac OS 9 source base,
which means that it will
be bug-for-bug compatible.
Hopefully that's good news.
Now, DP4 works as much as it
needed to work for Sherlock,
basically.
We locked down quite a while ago,
so things are much better on my machine.
But HTTPS isn't working.
Deauthentication and progress
dialogues are not yet working.
Proxy support is disabled because of
some issues we had with Internet config.
Keychain support is disabled
for the same reason.
And we're not yet part of Carbon.
It's a separate framework right now.
The path to that is
System Library Frameworks
URL Access.framework,
so you have to link that in.
So hopefully you're all raring to go,
you have ideas, you want to get started.
If you want to develop on Mac OS 9,
you need to download the security SDK,
because we are a member
of the security APIs.
That's where the URL Access SDK is.
Or of course you could
just download CarbonLib.
You want to develop on Mac OS X,
URL Access is on DP4
with its limitations.
And you need to link with
system library frameworks,
URL Access.framework.
You are going to want to get
the latest documentation.
It has been revved recently.
It's a big improvement.
And that is up on the TechPubs website.
So what are we going to do in the future?
We are going to support 128-bit SSL 3,
and we're going to have new
root certs for Mac OS 9.
We're going to do some bug fixing, too.
We're going to fix a memory leak that
a number of you have told us about.
Thank you very much.
We knew about it.
But it's fixed now.
We're going to support
NELS in the HTTP request body.
That has been requested
by several developers.
And this last one, support for SHA1 with
RSA signed certificates.
I'm going to briefly
get SSL technical again.
VeriSign has recently changed the way
that they sign their certificates.
So as people,
as servers on the web update
and get new certificates,
these certificates are not going
to be readable by URL Access.
It's a very bad thing.
We are going to fix that.
On 10, we have more grandiose plans.
We do intend to implement HTTP upload.
We want to implement connection reuse.
What this means is that if you want to
do a series of uploads or downloads,
you don't have to bring up and tear
down a connection every time because
you're going to have a session.
We're going to move to the
secure transport library,
which will give us our
dynamic route cert database.
We'd like to improve our
built-in encoding and decoding.
Certainly,
we want to support Nick Binary and
whatever else you all think is important.
And we may re-enable plugins and/or
add additional scheme support built in.
Okay, so this is where you all
have to pay attention.
It's a very quick demo.
We can move over to the Demo 1 machine.
Now what I have here is an
application URL Access demo.
What I did was I went to the
Carbon Sample Apps folder and
I basically used it without modification,
except I added two menu items,
FTP Download, HTTP Download.
Both of which simply call
URL Simple Download with
a hard-coded URL.
Let's start with the HTTP download.
So here's our progress bar.
As you can see, the user can see the
progress of the download.
They could hit the stop
button if they so desired.
They have an indication of the
time remaining less than a minute.
If they want more information,
they can find out what they're copying,
where they're copying it from,
where they're copying it to.
In this case,
we're downloading to memory,
so the to field is empty.
And they get a running total of
how many bytes have already been
copied and how many bytes are total.
And of course,
we can abort it at any time.
FTP download,
this is connecting to FTP.apple.com,
as you can see from the initial line.
You can go ahead and type in your
username and type in a password.
You could add it to the
keychain if you wanted to.
Or if you know that the site that you are
connecting to supports anonymous login,
you could just go ahead and
click the anonymous button.
I'm going to try this, actually,
earlier this morning.
It did not work.
I think FTPI.com is
just really busy today.
It's just refusing my connection,
but I'm going to go ahead
and give it a try anyway.
and it refused my connection.
So what you would have seen
is another progress bar.
So we've already seen that.
And that's it for the demo.
Can we move back to the slides, please?
So to summarize,
URL Access is the API to use if you
want to get data off the Internet.
It's a Carbon API.
It's available to you on 9 and 10.
It's very easy to use, synchronous APIs,
single call to do a download or upload.
And we also have flexible
async APIs if you need them.
The one session I want to point you
to is the Security Feedback Forum.
If you don't have time to get
your feedback to me today,
then you can go to this.
We are including URL Access in
the Security Feedback Forum,
and that's in room J1 today at 5 p.m.
And if you want to talk to
somebody about this after the show,
you want to contact Tom Weier,
who's our Network and
Communications Technology Manager in
Apple Worldwide Developer Relations.